chore(blog): add new article about starting GB elections (#4176)
asyncapi/website: markdown/blog/first-governance-elections.md

featured: true
---

I'm very proud to announce the first elections for the new **AsyncAPI Governance Board (GB)**. They start today and finish in July.

In a few weeks, I can step down as Executive Director without worrying about the AsyncAPI Initiative and the community that supports it.

## Who Can Vote

Voting is open to all members of the **Technical Steering Committee (TSC)**.

We currently have [43 members](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/TSC_BOARD_MEMBERS.yaml).

## How to Vote

GB voting is not the typical automated voting process we use for simple "yes" or "no" decisions with emojis in GitHub issues and pull requests. These elections are a manual process.

As described in the [Governance document](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md#voting), we use a **"first-past-the-post"** voting system.

**You should:**
* Send your vote to **info@asyncapi.io** no later than two weeks after the elections begin.
* Your vote should be a list of the candidates' names you wish to appoint as GB members.
* Since we are initially selecting three GB members, you should send **three names** of candidates.

> Here's an example of a ballot (it's a bulleted list, and the order does not matter):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example of a ballot (it should be a bulleted list, and the order does not matter):
```

- Motivation Statement: I am running for the governance board to ensure that the AsyncAPI community continues to grow sustainably, inclusively, and transparently. Governance is not just about making decisions; it is about creating opportunities for people to take ownership of the project. I believe my background and experiences equip me to advocate for long-term strategies that benefit our community members, maintainers, contributors, and newcomers alike. I am particularly committed to exploring sustainable and scalable initiatives that will keep AsyncAPI thriving for years to come.
- Contact Information for questions:  
  ```
  https://thulieblack.github.io
  ```

## Vote Counting and Timeline

The first elections will be managed by the Executive Director (ED).

> * Emails containing votes will be labeled `gbvotes2025`. This is so new GB members can easily access and verify the vote counts later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Emails containing votes will be labeled `gbvotes2025`, so that the new GB members can easily access and verify the vote counts later.
```
